---
layout: post
title:  "Lenovo x220 - good backup laptop"
date:   2017-04-07 23:30:08 +0000
categories: shits
---

About a month ago my old laptop started to experience powering issues when I moved a bit the display. Long story short: I tried to repair and I fucked it up beyond repair.
I was looking for cheap laptop to get by and I was recommended x220. I ordered the i5 version from Ebay and it was delivered in about three days.
It cost me about 120 GBP - its the version with 4gb of RAM and HDD. I wanted to use my SSD which did not work out of the box - I had to install windows 10 in order to update bios. 
But after installing SSD and additional memory (now I am at 8GB) its much more faster then my old computer. 

# The good stuff:
- very cheap
- with SSD and extra memory (up to 16GB) its still reasonably fast - I had no problem running two virtual systems and three chrome apps at the same time.
- The keyboard is better then on any laptop. Say what you want but this laptop will beat any of the new ones.
- Everything on Linux works out of the box. 
- Fingerprint integration is nice and easy see [Fingerprint GUI](https://launchpad.net/~fingerprint/+archive/ubuntu/fingerprint-gui)
- My model had a new battery and keyboard. 
- Its not that heavy. 
- You can switch Fn and Ctrl keys in the bios
- If you destroy you can always buy a new one. 
- The built quality is good. 

# The bad stuff
- The touchpad is shit. This is because also provided support for the trackball. I dont use that so I am disappointed. The physical buttons of the touchpad takes way too much space. 
- Its a bit heavy.
- The resolution could be better. 
- The keyboard lamp is kind of awkward.  

Overall its meant to be a cheap replacament laptop and I am very happy with this choice. So if you just watered down your laptop and have no money to xpare go for Lenovo x220 (i5 version though). 
